# GreenShift
Sometimes it is important to try out ones ideas.
I call this idea GREEN SHIFT CAMPING.
It is an opens-source-establishment that is run as a place to stay width cabins for rent. Beneath the surface it should also be a place to develop and to teach ways to live that does not harm the planet. People in modern western society should be presented with ways to reform their lifestyle to something that could meet the demands of 2050. Westerners would come to relax for a couple of days and be tempted to change their lifestyle more or less drastically, in order for their children to be able to master the future. My idea conscerns intself with finding a kind of innocense that we western modern society lack today. At this place, then, open source technology, philosophy and morals is to be showcased to visitors and readers. At the same time all findings and accomplisments is to be documented online. 

In the case of energy, this center should have a geo-temperature system that extracts what heat is needed for heating and perhaps also electricity from the earth. Thus we have a group of buildings interconnected with a star topology with distribution of heat and electricity, and also communications from the center building. Energy aspects is largely what shapes the outline of this idea of mine, along with the different sets of inspirations i have been exposed to. CO2 emissions should also be kept at a minimum and hence we must take into account the thermodynamics, gravity and lots of other physical laws and technical diciplines. No doubt there will be a lot to learn in the process of trying to realize such an idea.

So this geo-temperature system then, i imagine, should be about medium size and capacity. I am not sure what diameter borehole is needed, but I understand that 300 meters depth should be able to meet the needs as far as heating is concerned. The pipes should be a closed loop where water or glycol is pumped down and then water or steam emerges.
I imagine that fluids are easyer to handle than steam in this respect. For heating of buildings and hot water, I guess that 50 degrees celsius should be sufficient. What temperatures and therefor depth of hole is needed to power a electrical generating Stirlingmachine I am less sure of. To produce electricity locally and off grid is desireable, however that could almost as well be accomplished with a solar system with batteries. Since I lean towards a 48V DC electrical system for this whole village, both tecnologies could well achieve that goal, but I would greatly prefer the battery-less geo-temperature solution, since it suites my region in Northern Norway better at wintertime. Perhaps a combination of the two is ideal as less power is needed in the cold season when visitors probably are fewer.

I imagine this heat and power central deep below the center building, at the bottom floor of a 3 or 4 story basement. The walls then should be sufficently isolated that the surplus heat is leaded up through the building and is channeled out to heat the greenhouses surrounding it. 

These greenhouses surrounding the main building should probably not be symmetrically encompassing it, since the sun treats the different sides differently. Greenhouses should be generally low buildings and perhaps two-stories certain places to make use of both sunlight and exess heat from the building. Ideally they should be scaled to provide ample food for the staff that lives in the village, but what could and should be grown in there is inevetably a subject for trial and error. I still would like to recommend all-vegan food to avoid animal use and part robotized or vision aided growing to ensure efficiency.

So the base floor of the main building is tied up in heating system, heating distribution, electricity generation and ventilation system. It is probabably a good idea to have a horisontal tunnel or borehole from the bottom floor downwards to open air if the surrounding landscape allows for it, to avoid flooding of the whole structure.
If the landscape of the whole village is level, on the other hand, there might be enough difference in height to allow for sewer pipes from all village buildings to the main building cellar and having some kind of sewer system there as well.

The next level then should be a manufacture and showcase floor, applying numerous appropriat technologies as found on appropedia, thingiverse, wevolver prusaprinters and the likes. This is where clothes, 3D-machines, lasercutters and other products should be manufactured in a display-like manner. Paper, plastics cloth and metal should be recycled in small scale down here and perhaps even processed like making plastics into 3D-printable filament and rags into thread or rope. 3D-printers, laser cutters and automatic knitting-machines should be put to good use to manufacture whatever is needed in equipping the village or turning waste into commodities. Maybe this floor also allows for food processing like the making of tofu. There also is different fungi-based products to try out in such an enviroment, although these probably have to be grown elsewhere.
A leather-substitute I heard about on Youtube comes to mind. Maybe this floor even allows for brewing of beer. That would have been something.

The First floor and perhaps the one just below it should have a reception and toilets, a conference room or classroom of some kind and definetly some kind of hallway displaying information of the village and polargraphs drawing dilligently. Windows displaying the greenhouses would be appropriate here. A proper kitchen of some capacity probably also fits in here, with a steam-stove or something like that that efficiently cooks for a crowd if needed. A slow-food cooker probably is easy to make, too.


Downhill in the outskirts of the village would be a good place for a utility building with fungi-farm, Cambi-technology sewer-processing system and a rocket stove ess. Perhaps even a sauna down there.

The buildings should be printed in locally aquired clay or dirt with a method I started drawing in OpenScad, inspired by some Italian dome-houses I found online one time. Wasp, the company is called.
One building should be possible to be raised by one skilled person in one day, given his or her full focus on the task. The buildings would be printed leaving spaces in the walls for adding isolation, warm and cold zones, ventilation channels and draft channels.
What goes beneath the floor of the dome huts I haven't fully decided on yet, but whatever it is it should be modular.
This way, a hut could be rented equipped with either television, baby changing table or vinyl record player that fits in the same socket. Electricity should be 48V DC, heating should be central, yet controllable in every building and communication should be gigabit ethernet. These modular clay or dirt huts is probably the only novel part of the village. They would be utilizing open patents and/or open source solutions and the combined solutions should be thoroughly documented day by day on github or similar places.

One idea even suggests that the whole village should be interconnected with a simple garden train and homemade railway, but thatone seems a bit far fetched at the time I am writing this. Still, it probably would have made a fun place for children to spend a few days. The appeal to children definetly should be prioritized though, since they are the ultimate target for the whole project. So 3D-printers, polargraphs, pancace-printers, scateboard-ramps and other fun things should be taken into the planning. Perhaps even the growing of food could be made entertaining in a way. The growing of and respect for food has an important place in the goal of the project, that is, to master the future.

There is a type of paper-ash-concrete that one could be using to cast the lower floors of the main building with, although now used wood seems like a good option for building material, perhaps even a solid wooden construction of this material. It depends of the availability of the material, I guess. I am not quite done speculating this question yet. There is a drawing in OpenScad that explores a pentagram-type construction that should be strong enough, I think, with home-made upcycled wooden glued beams. Could one DIY wood-glue?

Now to some guesswork as to what goes when.
Supposed that the village is to be located in a level plain. Then digging deep down in the area of the main building to get to beneath the foundations. First thing is to lay down protective earth cable. Then to sort all masses dug to their various uses. Ideally all of it should be put to good use. Drain masses in the very bottom. Ideally water should be able to passively run off, so if the landscape permits, there should be horisontal drilling downhill to open air early on. Preferably close of the outlet with bars to prevent animals from entering. Coarse gravel should be laid to cast the cellar floor onto. This leaving a small area to drill the geo-term hole.
Drilling for heat is next. Once hot water loop is established then the power generator sterling engine should be started. Then hopefully there will be enough power for lighting and mixing of sement through the winter. Then the two or three cellar floors should be cast, at least the outer flower-ring, for stability. 
Then the prefabricated wooden beams is to be installed with colomns and various metal brackets, allowing for some play in length. Probably wooden floors should be laid upwards as we go, as well as sturdy stairs for safety and convenience.

Then, once at the surface and covered with floor, the outer walls of the center should be printed from either 5 or 10 points, depending on how large a printer-frame is to be used. This then should be with the same technique and materials as the village huts described elsewhere. The top floor or attic middle hat of the building could well share design and geometry with the utility building mentioned above.

Where should this village be placed, then. Should it be by the seaside? There is a lot of that around here, as my whole region is located on numerous islands. To get some space between the village huts the whole structure should be claiming a fairly big area. The area should not be processed more than neccessery, but still it is hard to combine with traditional agriculture land, I guess. So avoiding traditional agriculture land this village is left with fairly flat small islands with no present settlement or plains of hight altitude. The former would get few visitors and the latter would be next to impossible to get permission to use, i imagine, in my home region. There also could be possibilities on private properties that is less suited for agriculture due to less favorable sun or soil properties.
Seaside would mean possibilities for hunting and gathering as well as recreations like boats and ROV-flying.
A site near sea-level probably should be avoided since tidal variations could well cause complications as extreme weather gets more extreme. A plain of high altitude with a view to the sea sounds perfect to me, but perfect is rarely an option. 
My reason for publishing this now is that times seem to be growing hard, and perhaps someone finds use in realizing parts of these plans for quick or cheap housing or for some other goal.

If I were to realize these plans or dreams, the following things should be rendered beforehand:

One stirlingmachine or something that could be converted into one.
One big plastic-granola 3D-printer that can provide large structural parts, for waterways amongst other things.
A Youtube channel and some kickstarter-like attention.
Backhoe tractor.
A piece of land to build on.
Permission from gouvernments.
Permission from the wife.
